SALES PROCESS: 
STATUS OF THE LEAD: “Contacted Not Reached”
Objective: Get in touch with the lead (preferable via phone call) to qualify if Destify is able to deliver on what the lead is looking for their wedding. 
Ways of communication: phone call, texting, emailing
Basic qualifications of a lead:
Looking to get married in the next 6-24 months
Looking for a destination wedding in one of the destinations Destify sells. 
Planning to have 10 or more guests, in need of travel assistance to stay at the resort. 
Sample Messaging in this Phase: 
Text: 
“Hi Kelly! My name is Lauren and I work for Destify. I received your destination wedding date request and I would love to chat with you about your wedding - when is a good time? You can also schedule some time with me through the link here - calendly.com/l_watson/15min :) “ 
Email: 
“Hi XX! 
Thank you for reaching out to Destify! My name is Lauren and I am a sales specialist here at Destify. I received your request for a destination wedding in XX, congratulations! 
Would love to connect via phone to talk about your wedding vision. When is a good time? You can schedule a call with me through the link here as well - https://calendly.com/l_watson/15min”


STATUS OF THE LEAD: “Sent Quotes”
Objective: Send hotel recommendations to qualified leads to hopefully match what lead is looking for.
Things to Consider when sending recommendations:
Venue
Price point
Distance from Airport
Activity Level
Wedding Budget
Destination
Seasonality
Any feedback is important to service the lead on finding the perfect resort to host their wedding
Wedding packages and additional information can be sent during this status when the client responds. 
Ways of communication: phone call, texting, emailing
Initial Call Transcribed: 
“Sales Agent: Hello. Hi, good morning. This is Lauren from Destify. How are you? 
Client: Good. 
Sales Agent: Good! Well, nice to meet you. First and foremost, I want to say congratulations.
Client:Thank you. 
Sales Agent: When did you get engaged? 
Client: Last week.
Sales Agent:  Last week, holy moly, awesome. And how did it happen?
Client: We were thinking about getting engaged, but my daughter essentially asked and she said, hey, when are you gonna propose to my mom? 
Sales Agent: Yeah, I love that, that's awesome.
Client:  and then it just happened!
Sales Agent: And did he just like to do it that day then? 
Client: Yeah, pretty much. 
Sales Agent: That's awesome. Well, congratulations. And we are thinking about a destination wedding?
Client: Yes
Sales Agent: I know it's super fresh and, you know, fresh in your mind, but how has it been going thus far with wedding planning? 
Client: Actually, this is the first thing that we did. We kind of like brainstormed on some location. And I kind of tried to look online, but I felt like it was going to take too much time. So then I started looking for somebody who could help me plan this. So... 
Sales Agent: Absolutely. What kind of locations were you looking at?
Client: So we wanted it to be like a beach wedding. But so my nephews, so pretty much most everybody that's coming have kids. So we want it to be like family friendly, you know, they could do other activities and stuff like that. So that's the most important thing actually. So we got a beach and we got the family friendly, very important.
Sales Agent: Have you thought about which destination?
Client: Yeah, the only thing, so I'm debating between, mostly, so each family has kids, so I wanted it to be, I was thinking either January, but we don't have, like, a whole week off for the kids, so then it would have to be, like, spring break, which is in April. But then I guess it would have to be a destination where it's not too crowded, because everybody's going to be off.
Sales Agent: Yeah, I was just saying spring break would be...
Client: we're having some conflicting time areas because we want it over time where people have off work but then we don't want it to be too crowded. I know, that's why I was like, this is too complicated. 
Sales Agent: Yeah. What about summertime?
Client:  Yeah, summertime, I guess that's an option, yeah. 
Sales Agent: Because go through the seasons with you a little bit. So January through April are considered high season, which means it's going to be the higher room rates. Yeah, because it's the worst weather in the United States during that time, but the best down there, and you've got spring break. Just in general, that's when the pricing is going to be the highest, is between that January through April. Then May through early of August is considered shoulder season. Slightly warmer, people have off for summer, but pricing is gonna be a little bit lower than that January through April timeframe.
Client: Okay, that's different.
Sales Agent: Yeah, and then really like September and October are hurricane season, so we're kind of in that right now. You can always risk it for the biscuit, but it just might be a little bit more rainy during that time. And then November, December is also considered shoulder season, except for the last two weeks of December. Those are gonna be the highest rates out of the whole year because everyone has off for work and for school. 
Client: Yeah, okay. So May to August is probably the best time, right? Mm-hmm. Okay, maybe closer to... You want me to look at May maybe to start?
Sales Agent:  Yeah, you can look at may. 
Client: OK. But school usually is done in June. 
Sales Agent: OK, you want me to do June then? 
Client: Yeah, let's look at June. 
Sales Agent: OK, June. And it's 2024 or 2025? 
Client: 2024, 2024. 
Sales Agent: OK, great. And then what kind of destinations were we looking at?
Client: So we don't want to travel too far. So we live in the East Coast. I'm in Maryland. Okay. So, you know, I guess the Caribbean is okay, Mexico, but we don't wanna be like on the plane forever, you know, like not too far of a destination. 
Sales Agent: Yeah, no, for sure. So our top destinations are Mexico, Jamaica, and Dominican Republic. The reason being is that they have the largest airports and they have the most amount of options to choose from. The smaller the island you go, maybe the less nonstop flights you find and maybe not as many options. It's kind of like a supply-demand game. So from Maryland, I would say, and I guess that's another question for you, like what is most important to you? Like what is your wedding vision when you imagine going down the aisle or when you imagine arriving to the property?
Client: I want it to be a memorable experience for all of us, my parents, the kids, and my brother, and his kids. So it's kind of like a vacation and a wedding at the same time. And I want it to be nice so they can have spa, relax, and we can also get together, have nice meals.
Sales Agent: So let me ask you this are you a hang out by the pool and beach and kind of enjoy the amenities kind of person or are you like I want to go out and explore and do a ton of excursions? 
Client: No, not a ton of excursions. 
Sales Agent: Yeah. I'm thinking we start in Mexico and Dominican Republic. And if we're striking out or if things aren't really looking like what you're looking for, then maybe we can explore Jamaica as well. How does that sound? 
Client: Yeah, that's fine. 
Sales Agent: Okay, great. Awesome. So what other things, what other questions do I have for you? How many people are we thinking about having come? 
Client: So far I have 15, but we can say 20 just to be on the safe side. 
Sales Agent: Okay. in those 20 is that including the kids? 
Client: Yeah, including the kids.
Sales Agent:  20 people total, perfect. And so let me talk to you about the process and what Destify does. So kind of the first step of planning a wedding is the hardest part, and it's finding where and which resorts, so that is my job here is to help you with that. So today what I'm gonna be doing is I'm going to be sending over some properties that I recommend and I'm going to provide hotel pricing first and foremost. Reason being is that I want to make sure that you and your guests are comfortable with the price to stay on property because whenever hosting a wedding, they do require at least 80% of your guests to be staying on site, with a reservation for a three-night minimum. So it makes sense. We're going to start there. I'm going to send you pricing and on that too, you're going to see venues, you're going to see some packages, there's like some hyperlinks so you can start to explore these options and let me know your thoughts. If you love them, fantastic. If you hate them, you're not going to hurt my feelings. So the only thing I request of you is to let me know why you don't like something and that will help me with my research. And then so we're going to work together to try and narrow down our options to like one or two places. To be honest with you, we are looking within, you know, June is like within nine months. So we are, I don't want to say a time crunch. You still have time, but I would rather kind of get to the narrowing down phase sooner rather than later. Because the sooner that you book something, the more time that your guests have. So we're going to work together over the next week or so to hopefully find one or two places that you're seriously considering for your wedding. Once that happens, I'm going to help you get date availability. So date availability, I'm going to request two to three dates and they're going to come back to me within 24 to 48 hours. At that point, if I have a date on hold, it's not on hold forever. So it does kind of go quick to the booking steps from there. Any questions thus far on the process?
Client: No, not really. I think you've explained it really well. 
Sales Agent: Oh, good. Well, thank you. I've been doing this a little bit of time over the years. So once I get that date availability back, what does the booking of a wedding look like? So there are two deposits. One of them is going to be for your room reservation, just you and your fiance. And your fiance's name is Ngozi? 
Client: Ngozi, yeah. 
Sales Agent: Got it. So just for the two of you, you put down a deposit with Destify for 300 bucks. That gets applied towards your room reservation. So your room reservation cost is gonna depend on how long you wanna stay or whatever room category you want, but the deposit always stays the same of 150 per person, so 300 for the two of you. At the same time we do that, we also book your wedding. So wedding deposits vary by which property or which package but it can start at like 100 and it can go up to like $1,000. So minimum, it could be 400 bucks, maximum it could be 1,300 to reserve both your room and your wedding. And the deposits always get applied towards the wedding too. So at that point, once we book it, we gotta confirm some details with the resort. Maybe there's a contract that needs to be signed or something, but once we get that really fully confirmed, then you're gonna build a website for you. We build the website where then your guests can go on and they can start to book their own room reservations with their own deposits. That's really the next step once you book a wedding is you want to get people to be making their room reservation and planning their travel and then you can start working on like the actual planning of the wedding with a wedding coordinator on site. So there's people that do this daily and they're going to be your main point of contact in terms of, you know, decisions regarding your wedding. What photographer do you want? Or what extras do you want? Or what decor? So you are going to work with someone directly for that kind of, for those kinds of planning regarding your wedding, while Destify can help take care of the travel. And all of your guest questions, you know, your aunts and uncles that are maybe your friends that have never been outside of the country, we're going to help answer their questions for them.
Client: Okay, that's great.
Sales Agent: And then all of our services are completely complimentary. So we do not charge anything for them because we already get paid on the back end. Does that all make sense? 
Client: Yeah, yep. 
Sales Agent: Awesome. And then really the biggest difference of what our agency is different than some other ones, and it's good for your group size too, is that we do something called flexible booking, which means that we're not making you put down thousands of dollars saying, hey, I'm going to have 20 people come. And then let's say not all 20 show up. You would be held liable with a contracted room block. We don't do that for you. Everyone's just individually responsible for their own reservation and their own payments. How does that sound? 
Client: That sounds good. 
Sales Agent: Awesome. All right. So I think I have all I need to get started of starting this research phase of finding the resort. The only other question I had for you was regarding budgets. Have you two thought about or talked about what kind of budget you'd like to spend on the wedding or spend on room reservations, anything that could help me? 
Client: So we don't want it to be like, you know, super, super expensive, but we want it to be nice. Like, so we haven't really talked about numbers. So we don't want it to be extravagant, but not cheap either. I don't know if that helps. Like not cheap in the sense like we're not trying to be like frugal and like, you know, save every penny from the situation, but we want it to be, you know, kind of like curious but not over the top like. We can do this, but like, I don't. Does that make sense? 
Sales Agent: Yeah, and maybe you could give this to Ngoziya in terms of like a budget. So for 20 people, I think a good healthy budget would be around… like all in, trying to be maybe like, hold on, I'm doing really quick numbers, like 6000 to 8,000.
Client: Okay, so that includes the wedding and the room reservation? 
Sales Agent: Wedding, well it depends on how, you know, which room that you get, how long you wanna stay. So maybe throw out to him six to 10 and see what he says
Client: Okay.
Sales Agent: Because we can always, and I'll, whenever we find those one or two options that you're considering, I'll help you go through the packages and kind of run the numbers so you know what to expect. 
Client: Okay, that sounds good. 
Sales Agent: All right, perfect. Well, I'm going to get this kind of rolling here over the next 30 minutes or so. I'm going to text you afterwards to make sure you got them. I'm going to send it via email. But I'm really excited and I really appreciate you talking to me and I'll get them over as soon as I can. If you have any questions for me, please don't hesitate to reach out via call, text, email. If I ever don't answer a call, it's probably because I'm on the other line. But I'll try and get back to you as soon as I can, okay? 
Client: Okay, thank you so much. I appreciate it.
Sales Agent: Thank you. Look forward to working with you. Okay, bye.”


ADD IN COMMON QUESTIONS IN THIS PHASE AND AGENT RESPONSES: 

STATUS OF THE LEAD: “Pending Wedding Date”
Objective: Collecting wedding date availability from hotel wedding teams, client makes a decision on which date they want to get married on. 
Things to Consider:
We have online calendars for AIC, Riu, Palladium Hotel Group, and Marival to check real time availability
Date availability is subject to change if not reserved in 48 business hours
Sample Messaging during this phase: 
Text: “Hi Austin!! Exciting news!! I heard back from Royalton and Grand Palladium Royalton Availability: October 11, 2024 – 2pm and earlier all ceremony locations available except for Diamond Club Beach Gazebo (available at 1pm and earlier) . All reception locations available. October 14, 2024 – 2pm and earlier all ceremony locations available except for Diamond Club Beach Gazebo (available at 1pm and earlier) . All reception locations available. October 26, 2024 – 5pm and earlier all ceremony locations available. All reception locations available. October 27, 2024 – 5pm and earlier all ceremony locations available. All reception locations available.”

STATUS OF THE LEAD: “Waiting for Deposits”
Objective: Have the couple book their room and place their wedding deposit through CRM specific links.
Things to Consider:
Couple must select their dates of stay and room category in order to book a room
Couples must know the wedding package and venues they want in order to book their wedding date. 
Sample Booking Steps Email:

“Hi Maddie,

Congratulations on your selection of Majestic Elegance Costa Mujeres! We are happy to confirm your date of 2025-02-14 is available to be booked at this time. This date is being held for you for 24 hours, if no room or form is submitted please keep in mind date availability & rates are subject to change.

img
In order to confirm step two of Your Path to I Do, please complete the following:

Step 1) Secure Your Room Reservation HERE
Amount to charge: $150 per person initial deposit

Step 2) Secure Wedding Date & Place Wedding Deposit
Preferred Wedding Date: 2025-02-14
Preferred Wedding Time: 3PM
Deposit Amount: $0!
After you complete step 1, please let me know which location you would like for your ceremony & reception. I will then confirm the date with the resort's wedding team and introduce you!

Step 3) Wedding Website
Once your room is booked you will be allowed to build your wedding website through your wedding dashboard. Please do not share your website until you have a formal confirmation letter in hand.

I have also attached our Flexible Wedding Agreement for you to review, please reach out if you have any questions. I would be happy to set up a call, I know this is a lot of information and it may be easier to walk you through this on the phone together.”
